# Drowsines-detection
Nowadays Driver fatigue is a major factor in a large number of vehicle accidents. Recent statistics estimate that annually 1,200 deaths and 76,000 injuries can be attributed to fatigue related crashes. The development of technologies for detecting and avoiding drowsiness at the wheel is a major challenge in the field of accident avoidance systems. Because of the hazard that drowsiness presents on the road, methods need to be developed for counteracting its affects.  The aim of this project is to develop a prototype drowsiness detection system. The focus is on designing a system that will accurately monitor the open or closed state of the drivers eyes in real-time. By monitoring the eyes, it is believed that the symptoms of driver fatigue can be detected early enough to avoid a car accident. Detection of drowsy involves a pattern of images of a face, and the observation of eye movements and blink rate. The analysis of face images is a popular research area with applications such as face recognition, virtual tools, and human identification security systems. This  project is used the localization of the eyes, which involves looking at the image of the face, and determining the position of the eyes by developing matlab program. Once the position of the eyes is located, the system is designed to determine whether the eyes are opened or closed, and detect drowsiness.The purpose of this study is to detect drowsiness in drivers to prevent accidents and to improve safety on the highways.
